0x11-what happens when your type google com in your browser and press enter

What happens when you type google.com in your browser and press Enter
0. What happens when ...
DNS request:
A DNS(Domain name system) request (also known as a DNS query) is a demand for information sent from a user's computer (DNS client) to a DNS server. In most cases a DNS request is sent, to ask for the IP address associated with a domain name. An attempt to reach a domain, is actually a DNS client querying the DNS servers to get the IP address, related to that domain.
The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phone-book of the Internet. When users type domain names such as ‘google.com’ or ‘nytimes.com’ into web browsers, DNS is responsible for finding the correct IP address for those sites. Browsers then use those addresses to communicate with origin servers or CDN edge servers to access website information. This all happens thanks to DNS servers: machines dedicated to answering DNS queries.
TCP/IP
The Internet protocol suite, commonly known as TCP/IP. TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol and ensures reliable and ordered delivery of packets. IP stands for Internet Protocol and assigns unique addresses and routes packets across networks. When we type google.com on the bar of the browser, TCP/IP is used to connect our computer with the remote server. IP obtains and defines the address—the IP address—of the web server where googles website is located. TCP is then responsible for transporting and routing data through the network architecture and ensuring it gets delivered to the destination application or device that IP has defined.
Firewall
A Firewall is a network security device that monitors and filters incoming and outgoing network traffic based on an organization’s previously established security policies.  It is a security filter between a computer or server and the rest of the world.
When we type URL like google.com on browsers search bar, it first enters into firewall before reaching to web server. Based on the established security rules and policies, we either be blocked by the firewall or allowed to access the site. Rule sets can be based on several things indicated by packet ;8data, including source, destination and content. A firewall’s main purpose is to allow non-threatening traffic in and to keep dangerous traffic out.
HTTPS/SSL
SSL(Secure Sockets Layer) is standard technology for securing an internet connection by encrypting data sent between a website and a browser (or between two servers). It prevents hackers from seeing or stealing any information transferred, including personal or financial data. HTTPS(Hyper-Text Transfer Protocol Secure) appears in the URL when a website is secured by an SSL/TLS certificate. Users can view the details of the certificate, including the issuing authority and the corporate name of the website owner, by clicking the lock symbol on the browser bar.
When you enter "google.com" into your browser, the browser is like the sender of the message. The server hosting google.com is like the recipient. The browser sends a request for the web-page using HTTPS, which is like putting the request in a locked box and sending it to the server. The server then sends the web-page back to the browser using HTTPS, which is like putting the web-page in the locked box and sending it back to the browser.
Load-balancer 
Load balancing refers to efficiently distributing incoming network traffic across a group of back-end servers, also known as a server farm or server pool. 
Google, which receives billions of website visitors a day, requires many servers to serve all these users. Therefore, they need to set up a load-balancer to ensure that some servers are not 
overburdened while others are underutilized. When a browser tries to access google.com, the load-balancer receives the incoming request from the browser and forwards it to one of the servers in the Google server network. The server chosen will depend on the type of load balancing algorithm implemented.
Web Server 
The term web server can refer to hardware or software, or both of them working together.
On the hardware side, a web server is a computer that stores web server software and a website's component files (for example, HTML documents, images, CSS style-sheets, and JavaScript files). A web server connects to the Internet and supports physical data interchange with other devices connected to the web.
On the software side, a web server includes several parts that control how web users access hosted files. At a minimum, this is an HTTP server. An HTTP server is software that understands URLs (web addresses) and HTTP (the protocol your browser uses to view web-pages). An HTTP server can be accessed through the domain names of the websites it stores, and it delivers the content of these hosted websites to the end user's device.
When you type URL like google.com, your browser sends a request to the web server, which searches for the requested file in its own storage space. Upon finding the file, the server reads it, processes it as needed, and sends it to the browser. Let's look at those steps in more detail.
First, a web server has to store the website's files, namely all HTML documents and their related assets, including images, CSS stylesheets, JavaScript files, fonts, and video.
Technically, you could host all those files on your own computer, but it's far more convenient to store files all on a dedicated web server because:
A dedicated web server is typically more available (up and running).
Excluding downtime and system troubles, a dedicated web server is always connected to the Internet.
A dedicated web server can have the same IP address all the time. This is known as a dedicated IP address. (Not all ISPs provide a fixed IP address for home lines.)
A dedicated web server is typically maintained by a third party.
Second, a web server provides support for HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol). As its name implies, HTTP specifies how to transfer hypertext (linked web documents) between two computers.
A Protocol is a set of rules for communication between two computers. HTTP is a textual, stateless protocol.
Application Server
An application server is a server that hosts applications or software that delivers a business application through a communication protocol. 
When using "google.com," the application server will be responsible for producing the search results (which change based on the query you input into the search engine).
When you submit a search query to Google, the request is first sent to the load-balancer, which forwards it to one of the web servers in the Google server network. The web server then sends the request to the application server, which handles the request and produces the search results. Depending on the complexity of the search query, the application server may need to make a request to a database to retrieve the necessary data.
For instance, if you are searching for a particular product on an e-commerce website, the application server may need to obtain information about the product from a database.
Once the application server has acquired the required data, it sends it back to the website server, which includes it in the response that is sent back to the browser. The browse`r then uses this information to display the search results to you.
Database
A database server is a type of hardware that runs database software. Database software helps users or companies store, manage, retrieve, update or change files, information logs and other forms of digital data. The two primary components of database servers are back-end functions and client-facing services. The back end of a database server stores all the digital files and information. Client-facing services allow the people or companies using that database to access, modify, add to or monitor the data stored on the server.
In computing, a database is an organized collection of data (also known as a data store) stored and accessed electronically through the use of a database management system. Small databases can be stored on a file system, while large databases are hosted on computer clusters or cloud storage. The design of databases spans formal techniques and practical considerations, including data modeling, efficient data representation and storage, query languages, security and privacy of sensitive data, and distributed computing issues, including supporting concurrent access and fault tolerance.

